Week 11 - Chords!!!

This. Was. A. Mistake. The main complication of involving chords is that you create a lot more possible notes.
Normally a piano can only generate 88 notes but if you take into account all of the possible combinations of notes
that turns into 2^88 ~ 3.09 * 10^26. Of course you'll never actually play all of those chord but it means that the 
total number of possible notes increases. The unfortunate consequence of this is that the markov table becomes much 
more linear in nature; it is more likely to generate the exact same thing you played. 

I implemented the two data expansion algorithms I talked about in previous updates:

1. Adding all possible permutations of each chord to the table.

2. Adding multiple copies of each line for different octaves. 

I found that both of these extra add-on's were not effective. I would not reccomend implementing them as they muddy 
the table by adding in entries that often feed back into themselves and make you play the same thing over and over 
again for multiple bars. Even if you weight the permutations down it doesn't really effect much since most of the time
that weight is the only entry in that spot so it is 100% deterministic no matter the note weight.

I will keep the code for all of this in the project as I think it is important to keep "failiures" or paths that don't
work so that people in the future don't do them.

I think in the coming week or two I am going to add markov tables for both note volume and note length, and after those 
two coding problems, I am done with the code for this assignment. After that is a week of creativity and actually using 
my tool to make music. The goal is to have at least 5 songs that use my algorithm to make an algorithmic album of sorts.
I already have two songs that work great so I only need 3 more to make an EP of sorts. After that, the video Ill make 
summarizing this entire project and a possible write-up to cover any of the technical ends that don't make it into the video.
That will be the conclusion of this project which explores the possible things to do with markov chains in music generation.